# Project Journal Ep. 1

### Objectives
- Learn more about Rucio and SWAN
- Clarify the problem to address
- Draft a solution alternative for the project
- Provision a development environment for the next 3 months
    - Deploy Rucio and SWAN
    - Add the EOS storage as a Rucio Storage Element

### Challenges
- Incomplete documentation for Rucio and EOS
    - Luckily, mentors answered some questions
- The outcome of the dev environment is to have the EOS storage added as an RSE and that Rucio is able to transfer a file to the EOS storage.
- I explored the XRootD protocol that is implemented by EOS and supported by Rucio
- EOS containers in the Docker setup is not exposed to the internet.
    - Resolved: `docker-compose.yml` is then modified to expose the ports.
- Tried to `mkdir /eos/docker/user/rucio` from `eos-client`, said I didn't have permission
    - Spent hours reading documentation about permission, heading nowhere.
    - Apparently, the `eos-mgm` container is installed with `eos-client` with root user.
    - Resolved: Did the `mkdir` from inside the container.
- Tried accessing `/eos/user/rucio` from inside the SWAN notebook, it said that operation was not permitted
    - Resolved: I set the mask of the folder to `777` (not really a wise choice but it's for development only)
- As a proof of concept, I used `xrdcp` to copy local file to EOS.
    - It failed. Weirdly enough, when I tried to list the directory from SWAN notebook, the file was listed. When I tried to `cat`, however, it said file does not exist.
    - Tried doing `xrdcp` with `--debug 3` option, it turned out that the MGM redirects the XRootD client to `eos-fts1.demonet` which is inaccessible from outside the Docker network.
    - Edited `docker-compose.yml` to have just a single node of `mgm mq fst`
      - It didn't work :(
    - Changed hostname to a publicly resolvable FQDN.
      - Also didn't work. Since it resolves to an external IP, it was considered unauthenticated and therefore resulted in the error message "no space left"
      - Tried to change both the FST and MGM domain from "demonet" to the publicly resolvable FQDN. Same "no space left" error
      - Tried to change all "demonet" domain to the publicly resolvable FQDN. Somehow the `/etc/docker/user` directory was not created.
      - When the hostname was changed back to `demonet`, the `user` directory returns. 
        - It turned out that the volumes must be pruned before changing domains.
      - I couldn't find a way to use hostname other than `demonet`. It's weird that I have replaced every "demonet" string literal in the github.com/cernbox/uboxed repository with `swan` and still failed.
    - Attempt to do PoC with `xrdcp` failed :(
 - Tried to put Rucio in the same Docker instance and network to make FST reachable from Rucio.
    - `run_tests_docker.sh -i` worked!
    - Added `root://eos-mgm.demonet` as an RSE. Worked!
    - Tried to upload a text file using `rucio upload`. The prompt stuck at `Starting new HTTPS connection (1): rucio:443`, but amazingly the file showed up when I accessed it from the SWAN notebook.
      - It seemed that this was due to the self-signed certificate packaged in the Rucio Docker repo.

### Observations
- EOS MGM redirects client to an FST node, so the FST node must be accessible to the client.
- EOS MGM uses FST-reported hostname, which is retrieved from `hostname --fqdn` in every FST node.
- `xrdcp` from outside the Docker network fails, but from inside--albeit without authentication--can succeed.
- Somehow Rucio and ScienceBox cannot coexist in the same Docker instance.
  - Some ports conflict, but even after this is settled, Rucio still can't function properly. `run_tests_docker.sh` freezes when it uploads `file1`.
- EOS storage is somehow related to the domain name of the FST, MGM, and MQ.