# Project Journal Ep. 2
**May 20th, 2020 - June 1st, 2020**

## Objectives
- Familiarize Rucio codebase by submitting a PR
- Validate solution alternative with mentors
- Prepare repo for coding period

## Challenges
- PR automated tests failed.
  - I initially thought that had something to do with the master branch I checked out.
  - Tried to merge back `master` to my branch. Somehow it got messed up and suddenly the PR had 82 commits to merge :(.
  - Did `git reset --hard HEAD~1` to rollback the merge, eventually doing several force pushes :).
  - Resolved: it turned out that two files that weren't included in my changes, conflicted with my changes. Previously, it wasn't a problem since the files in question didn't have a corresponding doc file. After I added the doc files, the tests failed.
    - Thanks to @bari12 and @bziemons for reviewing my PR and suggesting the changes!
- Set up repo as instructed in JupyterLab docs
- Failed when running `jupyter run --watch` on JupyterLab version 2.1.3. It said `chokidar` package not found.
  - Resolved: downgraded to JupyterLab 2.1.0

## Observations
(None)

## Results
- Issue [#3630](https://github.com/rucio/rucio/issues/3630), PR [#3631](https://github.com/rucio/rucio/pull/3631), PR [#3632](https://github.com/rucio/rucio/pull/3632).
- Refined solution alternative
  - Extension can connect to multiple instance. Configurable by instance administrators, selectable by users from frontend.
  - Configurations include: Rucio instance URL, Rucio account credentials, destination RSE, RSE base path, download flow enabled, RSE flow enabled.
  - Keep the dataset browser, but disable wildcard searches.
  - Instead of "Stage to EOS", use "Make Available"
  - There should be a function to translate Rucio DID into temporary physical path accessible from within the notebook.
    - Suggestion: make the process transparent, e.g. translate "{did:scope:file}" to "/eos/rucio/scope:file" automatically before executing each cell.
    - Base path of each RSE is configurable.
- Public code repo set up in [didithilmy/rucio-jupyterlab](https://github.com/didithilmy/rucio-jupyterlab).
  - Based on [jupyterlab/extension-cookiecutter-ts](https://github.com/jupyterlab/extension-cookiecutter-ts).
  - BSD-3 Licensed
- Ideas draft [here](../IDEAS.md)