# Project Journal Ep. 3
**June 1st, 2020 - June 7th, 2020

## Objectives
- Create a UI skeleton
- Create configuration system that supports remote config
- Create an SQLite3 database for storing caches
- Create several simple serverextension endpoints
- Create a Kernel function to translate DID into path

## Challenges
- Not sure about how the extension would behave on JupyterHub installations
  - How will the serverextension see the home directory. Will it be the logged in user or the host OS's homedir?
- Typical CSS struggles
  - Vertical centering, icon not aligning well, etc.
- Slow development cycle
  - Every time the serverextension changes, `pip install .` and `jupyter lab` must be run, which could take a couple of minutes.
  - For non JL-specific codes like Tornado handlers and SQLite, the development is done externally, and the ported to JL later on.
- A bug in the caching subsystem appeared. Somehow, the cache was always ignored.
  - The cache in database was always updated, but never regarded.
  - It was discovered that there was a mismatch during time format conversion. Rucio uses a specific human-readable format while the extension uses UNIX timestamp. When doing a conversion using `time.mktime`, the function didn't account for timezones, resulting in the UNIX timestamp 7 hours behind what it was supposed to be.
    - Resolved: use `datetime.gmtime` instead of `time.mktime`
- Unsuccessful attempt in creating a function to translate DID into path from within the kernel.
  - Alternative one: Kernel communicates with frontend extension using `comm`.
    - Problem: comms are asynchronous, thus the function cannot block the execution when waiting for the message to be replied.
    - Tried to use `asyncio` to block execution, the Future never resolves. Might have something to do with how IPython handles async.
    - Tried using simple `while not data`, suffers from the same endless loop problem.
  - Alternative two: Kernel calls the server extension directly using HTTP calls
    - Problem: requires token known by the frontend extension.
    - Tried retrieving the access token using `jupyter notebook list --json`, might work, but won't work on instances not enabling token auth.
    - Tried retrieving the token from frontend using `comm`, hasn't worked.

## Observations
- Something about IPython asyncio's implementation interferes with the comm's `on_msg` callback to be invoked.

## Results
- Created UI skeleton
- Created local and remote config system
- Created SQLite-based preferences & cache persistence
- Created instance selection page
  - Selection persisted to database
- Created file details endpoint
  - Returns the mounted path and replication status
  - Implemented caching with expiry date following rule expires_at