# Project Journal Ep. 4
**June 8th, 2020 - June**

## Objectives
- Implement dataset-level DID replication
- Attach DIDs to notebook metadata

## Challenges
- Replication from individual file DID and container can result in different states.
  - e.g. when the replication rule is in dataset level, the query to check replication status can only work for the dataset DID.
  - There is no replication rule attached to the file DID, hence the query results in NOT_AVAILABLE.
  - When replicating in a dataset level, the dataset will show "Replicating" in the UI, but the individual fiile DIDs will show "Not Available"
  - Resolved: let the UI have different state for dataset- and file-level DID.
- When a new file is attached to an already-replicated dataset, the status of the new file follows the status of the dataset. Before the judge evaluator daemon is run, this could result in the status being "OK" but the file hasn't been made available.
  - Resolved: For files with the status OK but path = None, the status is returned as "REPLICATING"
- Active notebook is accessible from `ILabShell`, but I was confused on how to propagate the `ILabShell` instance down to the leaf React component.
  - One alternative that was tried was to use a global Event Bus using `ts-event-bus`, but it proved to add complexity.
    - Furthermore, if the notebook is loaded before the extension component is loaded, the UI won't show the notebook metadata since the Event Bus is not triggered until there is a change in the active tab.
  - Another alternative that was tried was to have the root React element listen to `ILabShell` events, and update a globally-managed state whenever there is a change. Leaf components can read the state, or `subscribe` to the state change if necessary.

## Observations
- There's a thing called the judge evaluator daemon :)

## Results
- Implemented dataset-level DID replication
  - If the UI finds out that the entered DID is not a file DID, it will show another entry at the top of the list with a different icon.
  - Availability status for dataset-level DID is computed as follows:
    - If all of the files attached to the DID has "AVAILABLE" status, it becomes "AVAILABLE"
    - If some of the files attached to the DID has "AVAILABLE", and some other have "NOT_AVAILABLE", it becomes "PARTIALLY_AVAILABLE"
    - If one of the files attached to the DID has "REPLICATING" or "STUCK" status, it becomes "REPLICATING" or "STUCK" respectively.