# Project Journal Ep. 8
**Jul 20th, 2020**

## Objectives
- Out of scope, RnD activity: Find a way to integrate a storage caching layer with Rucio and the JupyterLab extension.

## Challenges
- Unfamiliar with setting up XRootD and XCache.
  - Resolved: Had a call with Riccardo to give a tutorial on how to setup the environment.
- Tried installing N2N Rucio plugin in Riccardo's XRootD Docker containers.
  - Followed steps in [https://github.com/xrootd/rucioN2N-for-Xcache/wiki/Introduction-to-Xrootd-N2N-for-Disk-Caching-Proxy-(Xcache)-utilizing-RUCIO-metalink](https://github.com/xrootd/rucioN2N-for-Xcache/wiki/Introduction-to-Xrootd-N2N-for-Disk-Caching-Proxy-(Xcache)-utilizing-RUCIO-metalink)
  - No luck, but I think the plugin is loaded, just not used. This line was present in the log: `200730 07:47:45 024 Posix_P2L: file /rucio/test:file1 pfn2lfn /atlas/rucio/test/80/25/file1`
  - But, there's no sign of an HTTP call being made to Rucio.
  - Additionally, the prefix `/atlas` and the Rucio hostname are hardcoded in the code.
- When trying to connect `origin_xrootd_stable` to Rucio as an RSE
  - An RSE with the name `ORIGIN` was added to Rucio, tagged with `root-proxy-internal` attribute.
  - Error: checksum was not calculated.
    - Resolved: Added this line: `xrootd.chksum adler32 /usr/local/bin/xrdadler32.sh`.
    - Shell script `xrdadler32.sh` is procured from Rucio's XRD1 Docker container.
  - Error: checksum invalid, it says "Error accessing"
    - The shell script accepts a file path as its input. Whenever the path is incorrect, it outputs "Error accessing".
    - Observation: in XRD1 container, the physical file is placed in `/rucio/...`, which is the same as the XRD path. In `origin_xrootd_stable`, it's `/data/xrd/rucio/...`.
    - Resolved: edit shell script to include `/data/xrd/$1` as the argument.
- When trying to list file replicas
  - A file was uploaded to `ORIGIN`.
  - When listing the file replicas through CLI, it is expected that the PFN starts with the Xcache address. It didn't.
  - I looked at Rucio's source code to find out that the cache is only appended if the site name is different than the RSE's.
  - I tried to find a way how to configure the client's site name.
    - Resolved: use environment variable `SITE_NAME`
  - Still, cache URL won't be appended.
    - Resolved: Cache is specified in the config instead of RSE attribute, tied to a site name.
    - The site name specified in the client must be different than the one specified in the RSE attribute.
    - Additionally, the config item must NOT begin with `root://`.
- When trying to set up GSI authentication for Download mode:
  - The original plan was to create a copy of the cert files to a temp dir, assign it permission of 400, and set env `X509_USER_CERT` and `X509_USER_KEY` with the paths.
  - When executing the script via command line, the transfer works.
  - After the code had been integrated to the extension, it didn't work. Rucio logs weren't helpful (the error was in GFAL2 and there was no way to set a verbose log)
  - It was deduced that there was an issue with permission or something (I'm not sure even until now). GFAL2/Xrd client will try to generate a proxy certificate before making the request. So this was an issue with the client.
  - After looking at Rucio's RSE protocols source code, I noticed that `xrdcp` is executed using `subprocess`.
    - I tried replicating the logic in a Jupyter notebook (to simulate the server extension).
    - The same error occured. Something was wrong with how the code is executed from the Python process, since executing via bash worked just fine.
  - Resolved: The extension will generate a proxy certificate using `grid-proxy-init` and place it in a temp directory. Env var `X509_USER_PROXY` will be set with the path to that proxy cert file. Worked!
    - Will find another way that requires less external dependency.
- When trying to make XCache works with an origin XRootD with authentication enabled:
  - The setup: `client <----> XCache <----> XRootD origin`.
  - Certificates placed on `/etc/grid-security` with the paths set to appropriate envs.
  - Did `xrdcp root://origin:1094//file` from both client and origin Docker container. Worked.
  - Did `xrdcp root://xcache:1094//root://origin:1094//file` from client, did not work.
  - Error: the xrd client couldn't get the required gsi proxy certificate.
    - Tried generating a proxy certificate from cli, no luck
    - After digging through the debug log, when the `xrdcp` is executed from the cli, it uses `root` user and thus it uses `/tmp/x509up_u0` proxy cert.
    - When XCache tries to execute, it uses `xrootd` user and thus uses `/tmp/x509up_u10940`.
      - Tried adding grid-mapfile entry to map the certificate CN to `root` and `xrootd`. No luck.
      - If all is well, the cert should be generated. Somehow it doesn't.
      - The proxy certificate was then generated manually.
        - To do this, there must be a symlink in `~/.globus` (notice that the home is `/var/spool/xrootd`, not `/root`, so I had to use `su xrootd`)
        - `/tmp/x509up_u10940` was generated, the `xrdcp` through proxy worked!
          - Somehow after it was deleted, the copy still worked. I'm not sure why.
        - This is a temporary fix, since proxy certs expire in 12h.


## Observations
- When using `xrdfs root://cache:1094//root://origin:1094//filename.txt`, the origin part is ignored and configuration value is used instead.
  - Tried changing `origin` to something else, `ls` would still work.
  - Default value is `<I forgot the hostname>.cern.ch`, so it must be changed to use `xrdfs`.
- When using `xrdcp root://cache:1094//root://origin:1094//filename.txt`, the origin part is considered.
  - However, once successfully cached, only the filename is checked.
  - Changing the origin address after that first successful fetch won't make a difference. See [Appendix 1](#appendix-1).
    - Could be problematic, what if two files with the same path but different origin want to be fetched?
    - Resolved: this is an intended behavior as in HEP, every file must have different paths.
- I finally (somewhat) understand about XRootD authentication!
  - I just found out about the standards for grid computing, including the Grid Security Infrastructure.
    - Although, I'm not sure who owns the "Globus" entity.
    - And now the Globus Toolkit is discontinued, are we losing an open standard/tool(?)
  - Earlier, I thought it was CERN-specific. Apparently, there are standards for that.
  - GSI in XRootD is esentially X.509 auth, with an additional feature for RFC3820 Internet X.509 Proxy Certificate
    - I also just found out that it was an RFC standard.
    - I was confused when Riccardo showed me `voms-proxy-init`. I thought the `proxy` refers to a TCP proxy or similar. It turns out `proxy` refers to X.509 Proxy Certificate.
- Somehow the tools used by HEP rely so much on environment variables and well known paths (e.g. `/etc/grid-security`). I don't know if this is a remnant of the past or just a convention.
  - An opinion: using environment variables couples the code and its environment so much, I personally don't like it :(
  - I prefer using method or cli params. Let environment variable be an optional thing.
  

## Results
- Working unauthenticated XCache + origin XRootD proof of concept.
  - See [Setting Up Rucio with XCache](../instructions/rucio-xcache.md)
- The extension's Download mode now supports GSI-authenticated storage node!
- Set up local Rucio and XCache instance on Docker to see if the extension is able to fetch data from XCache when configured.
  - It worked. Yeay!
  - XCache is set up according to [this guide](../instructions/xcache-dev-setup.md).
  - Rucio is configured according to [this guide](../instructions/rucio-xcache.md).
  - First, the extension's `site_name` configuration was omitted. There was nothing on the XCache logs (as expected).
  - Then, the extension's `site_name` configuration is set appropriately. The XCache logs (see [Appendix 2](#appendix-2)) confirmed that the download goes through the XCache as intended.

## Appendices
#### Appendix 1
```
# This one didn't work
[root@2d02cd2224d4 /]# xrdcp root://xcache_xrootd_stable_standalone//root://origin_xrootd_stab:1094/test test
[0B/0B][100%][==================================================][0B/s]
Run: [ERROR] Server responded with an error: [3005] Unable to open /root:/origin_xrootd_stab:1094/test; no route to host (source) 

# This one worked
[root@2d02cd2224d4 /]# xrdcp root://xcache_xrootd_stable_standalone//root://origin_xrootd_stable:1094/test test
[5B/5B][100%][==================================================][5B/s]

[root@2d02cd2224d4 /]# rm test
rm: remove regular file 'test'? y

# This shouldn't work, but it did
[root@2d02cd2224d4 /]# xrdcp root://xcache_xrootd_stable_standalone//root://origin_xrootd_stab:1094/test test
[5B/5B][100%][==================================================][5B/s]
```

#### Appendix 2
```
200806 03:48:49 024 ?:30@rucio-jl-dev.dev_default XrootdProtocol: 0000 req=login dlen=88
200806 03:48:49 024 sec_getParms: rucio-jl-dev.dev_default sectoken=&P=gsi,v:10400,c:ssl,ca:5fca1cb1.0|b96dc756.0
200806 03:48:49 024 jovyan.199:30@rucio-jl-dev.dev_default XrootdProtocol: 0000 req=auth dlen=112
sec_PM: Using gsi protocol, args='v:10400,c:ssl,ca:5fca1cb1.0|b96dc756.0'
200806 03:48:49 024 secgsi_GetSrvCertEnt: entry has expired: trying to renew ...
200806 03:48:49 024 jovyan.199:30@rucio-jl-dev.dev_default XrootdProtocol: 0000 req=auth dlen=3236
200806 03:48:49 024 XrootdXeq: jovyan.199:30@rucio-jl-dev.dev_default pvt IPv4 login as 208aaad7.0
200806 03:48:49 024 jovyan.199:30@rucio-jl-dev.dev_default XrootdProtocol: 0100 req=open dlen=42
200806 03:48:49 024 jovyan.199:30@rucio-jl-dev.dev_default XrootdProtocol: 0100 open rat /root://xrd1:1094//rucio/test/f3/14/file2?
200806 03:48:49 024 jovyan.199:30@rucio-jl-dev.dev_default ofs_open: 0-600 fn=/root:/xrd1:1094/rucio/test/f3/14/file2
[2020-08-06 03:48:49.444935 +0000][Debug  ][File              ] [0x68003dc0@root://u30@xrd1:1094//rucio/test/f3/14/file2?pss.tid=jovyan.199:30@rucio-jl-dev.dev_default&xrdcl.requuid=0be76060-e990-463c-92b7-5a0eb78180f7] Sending an open command

...

200806 03:48:49 024 jovyan.199:30@rucio-jl-dev.dev_default XrootdProtocol: 0100 close rc=0 fh=0
200806 03:48:49 024 jovyan.199:30@rucio-jl-dev.dev_default XrootdFile: closing r /root:/xrd1:1094/rucio/test/f3/14/file2
200806 03:48:49 024 jovyan.199:30@rucio-jl-dev.dev_default ofs_close: use=0 fn=dummy
200806 03:48:49 024 XrootdXeq: jovyan.199:30@rucio-jl-dev.dev_default disc 0:00:00
```